Article: Every model might be a late interaction model if you give it a chance (#1072)
qdrant/landing_page: qdrant-landing/content/articles/late-interaction-models.md

---
title: "Every* model might be a late interaction model if you give it a chance"
short_description: "Standard dense embedding models are surprisingly good in late interaction scenarios."
description: "Standard dense embedding models are surprisingly good in late interaction scenarios."
preview_dir: /articles_data/late-interaction-models/preview
social_preview_image: /articles_data/late-interaction-models/social-preview.png
weight: -160
author: Kacper Łukawski
author_link: https://kacperlukawski.com
date: 2024-08-05T00:00:00.000Z
---

\* At least every Open Source model, because you need to access its internals.

Qdrant 1.10 introduced support for multi-vector representations, and late interaction, are the most prominent example of 
such models. In a nutshell, both documents and queries are represented by multiple vectors, and finding the most 

> relevant documents requires calculating a score based on similarity between the pairs of query and document embeddings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
relevant documents require calculating a score based on the similarity between the query and document embeddings pairs.
```

Author: Thanks! Actually, "requires" refers to "finding" in that case, so I believe that was the correct form. However, I'm taking all the other changes :smiley:

    }
)
```

Both vectors have the same size, as both are produced by the same `all-MiniLM-L6-v2` model.

```python
from sentence_transformers import SentenceTransformer

model = SentenceTransformer("all-MiniLM-L6-v2")
```

Now, instead of calling the search API with just a single dense vector, we can build a reranking pipeline in which we 
will first get 50 results using the dense vector, and then rerank them using the output token embeddings to get just the
top 10 results.

```python
query = "What else can be done with just all-MiniLM-L6-v2 model?"

client.query_points(
    collection_name="my-collection",
    prefetch=[
        # Prefetch the dense embeddings of the top-50 documents
        models.Prefetch(
            query=model.encode(query).tolist(),
            using="dense-vector",
            limit=50,
        )
    ],
    # Rerank the top-50 documents retrieved by the dense embedding model
    # and return just the top-10. Please note we call the same model, but
    # we ask for the token embeddings by setting the output_value parameter.
    query=model.encode(query, output_value="token_embeddings").tolist(),
    using="output-token-embeddings",
    limit=10,
)
```

> In a real world scenario, you would probably go even step further and calculate the token embedding first, and then 
> perform pooling to get the single vector representation. This way you can do everything in a single pass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a real-world scenario, you would probably go even step further and calculate the token embedding first, and then 
perform pooling to get the single vector representation. This way you can do everything in a single pass.
```
